---
layout: page
title: Data Management Plan
---

Overview: Potential data to be used or developed during the workshop includes but is not limited to: 1) A compilation of data from empirical studies exploring the impacts of ECEs on genetic diversity (Dataset 1); Mathematical analyses and simulation code (Dataset 2); and existing genomic sequencing data, as well as code to be developed for the salamander case study (Dataset 3).

Ownership, Access, and Publication Conditions: Ownership of the data will be retained by the respective investigators contributing the data. Data compiled from empirical studies and the salamander sequencing data is being shared by J. Lee-Yaw, who retains the right to publish results from existing work in her lab that make use of the data for separate purposes. Student participants retain the right to publish the methods and results of any simulations they carry out prior to or during the workshop as a portion of their graduate thesis work. Additional data and results generated as part of the group’s activities, including code, mathematical analyses, and simulation results will be owned by the participants responsible for generating the models and simulations. Access to all datasets will be restricted to project members for the duration of the project. External requests for access will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis and will require a data sharing agreement outlining terms for its use, confidentiality, and citation.

An authorship plan for planned publications resulting from the workshop will be co-developed by participants on Day 3 (see Schedule). Prior to publication, all research outputs will be subject to internal review, during which all participants will have the opportunity to comment on analyses and results. Any extensions to planned activities that arise and that make use of the above-listed datasets for publication require written permission from the data holders (Datasets 1 and 3) or group (Dataset 2) prior to publication. Ownership of any additional data contributed by participants will be retained by them respectively and inclusion of this data in planned or emergent publications is at their discretion.
Data compilation, integration, storage, and backup: Datasets 1 and 3 are being compiled by J. Lee-Yaw and J. Enciso respectively and will be available to participants. A. MacPherson will oversee initialization and organization of Dataset 2 prior to and during the meeting. Data and code will be shared with workshop participants, stored, and backed up using a private GitHub repository. Larger files from Dataset 3 will be shared with select participants and backed up for the duration of the project on the Digital Research Alliance of Canada servers (collaborator roles sponsored by J. Lee-Yaw). Additional backups of the raw genomic data to network attached storage will be managed by J. Lee- Yaw. Shared folders will include detailed Readme files and annotated markdown files for code. Backups of files produced during the meetings will occur daily, with all versions tracked through version control software (e.g. Github).

Data Archiving: The team will follow the principles of open science, and at the time of publication, all data, metadata, and code will be made publicly accessible via trusted, open-access repositories (GitHub for code and simulation pipelines, Dryad for datasets, NCBI’s Sequence Read Archive for raw genomic data). Data management, archiving, and use in publications will be led by J. Lee-Yaw and A. MacPherson.
